# Coding Practice for Beginning of the Year
## README

The following challenges are created for the incoming freshman to learn their way around LEGO RobotC.

### Challenge #1

For the first challenge, your goal is to code your robot to move from the starting square to the square in the upper left corner of the mat. I could care less how you drive there, however, you must code your robots using voids. For your reference, I have attached some sample code to the bottom of the file.

### Challenge #2

For the second challenge, we are building on what you already know! Fun! You are going to use a WHILE and IF statement to get your robot to move only while you are clicking the center button.

### Challenge #3

For the third challenge, we are building mainly on the 2nd challenge! SO much fun! You are going to use a WHILE and IF statement together to make a 'motor debugging' program. This challenge also contains a more expert level challenge.

### Challenge #4

This challenge is going to be a little bit harder. You are going to build a program where the following happens:

 - The UP button on the EV3 Brick causes your "runTime" to be larger.
 - The DOWN button on the EV3 Brick causes your "runTime" to be smaller.
 - The ENTER button on the EV3 Brick will cause your robot to drive forward for the set "runTime" and then backup for the same "runTime." After the ENTER button is clicked and your robot finished driving, the program needs to end.

### Challenge #5

For this challenge, you are using what you know from the previous challenges to make the robot use sensors to move around the mat.

Your robot is going to start in the starting box, drive North at 50 power, then wait for the touch sensor to be clicked by the upper wall. Once it is clicked, the robot must stop, back up, turn around, then drive forward towards the South wall. Once the sensor is clicked, then for the last time, stop the robot.

### Challenge #6

It is once again time to put your knowledge to the test. Build a program to do the following:

- Start in the starting spot
- Drive to the North Wall
- Stop the robot when close to the wall (you must have the ultrasonic sensor stop it)
- Back Up
- Turn Around
- Drive back to the South Wall
- Stop the robot when close to the wall (you must have the ultrasonic sensor stop it)
